Congratualations on getting tin!

Now you must prepare to make bronze. To alloy metals together, you can use the alloying tank now available to you.

First you must have two melters, with heating underneath, placed one block apart from each other. Between the melters place an alloying tank. Under the alloying tank place a heat source. 
When you check JEI for the molten bronze recipe and click on the "alloying" tab, you can see that it takes three copper ingots and one tin ingot to produce four ingots of bronze.
You should always pay attention to these ratios, so that you do not leave unwanted remainders into your melting machinery. 

Place three ingots worth of copper into one of the melters and one ingots worth of tin to the other. Get heating to both of the melters and the alloying tank.
When these conditions are satisfied, you can see bronze alloy forming in the alloy tank. From there you can pout it onto a casting table like you did with copper (you can make the cast in another casting table and move it to the one you intend to pour the bronze on)

You should consider making a bronze pickaxe. After getting tin, new knowledge was unlocked to you and you can now find iron (hematite or limonite) ore. 
However, without a bronze pickaxe, you are unable to mine the ore. After getting a bronze pick head, you can easily put it onto the same copper pick you made previosuly. The copper head will be lost though. You can't swap the head if the copper pick is too worn or broken. This goes for all the other tools as well.

The blocks, tools and materials have different mining levels. These levels are, in growing order, as follows:

        0:Stone
        1:Copper
        2:Bronze
        3:Iron
        4:Diamond
        5:Obsidian
        6:Steel
        7:Ardite
        8:Manyullyn

You can see the mining level required in JEI tooltips (hold shift when hovering over items in JEI) and also on the block info provided by TOP on the top left of your screen. You can also see different mining levels of tools and tool materials in JEI and in your inventory.

After getting iron ore, you will unlock more new knowledge. Follow the advancements to progress!